Hi everyone, I hope you all are doing great in your life.
So in this video I will tell you how you can become a salesforce developer in just 3 months
and that too with the free resources.
Only the certification cost is little bit high but that is not required by every single
company that is asking for a salesforce developer role.
So no need to worry over that if you are a complete fresher and if you are someone who
is working somewhere then you can easily afford that certification cost.
So yeah, I would say that if you are a complete fresher or someone who is working in a service
based company and stuck in a worst kind of project that is not making you move anywhere
then I would definitely recommend you to switch to salesforce and start learning it.
So I hope you guys watch this video till the end because I have listed every single thing
that is required to become a salesforce developer like how you can apply, where you can find
the job search and where you can study those skills, where you can practice and where you
can apply for certification.
So yeah, this video is for you.
So let's just talk about salesforce.
Salesforce is number one CRM platform.
So what is CRM?
CRM is customer relationship management.
So salesforce CRM allows the businesses to automate, organize and synchronize every feed
of their customer and businesses can be small or large, it can be anything.
In simple words, I'd say salesforce is a platform used by businesses to enhance the customer
satisfaction.
So now that you got some idea about salesforce, so basically there is a lot of demand of salesforce
developer role, but there are very few people who are skilled into this particular job post.
So if you're looking for a job on LinkedIn or Indie, I would definitely recommend you
to search for salesforce developer role and you'd see that in one month there are only
five applicants of one particular jobs.
So it is very easy to grab that job offer for a complete fresher even.
You can learn salesforce from trailhead.com where you can find all the modules that are
required to learn.
So I would prefer you to start from salesforce admin because it's a basic platform of salesforce
where you need to learn the admin skills, which are the basic functionalities of salesforce.
So start with the salesforce admin modules, then complete the salesforce development module.
So if you are working in IT sector, it won't require more than 15 to 20 days for you to
learn salesforce admin.
Then go for the salesforce developer, which will require you like 1.5 months and that
is one single platform wherein you can learn all the skills.
So I think that would be great for you.
And if you're a complete fresher, it would take one month for salesforce admin and two
to three months for salesforce developer.
And if you find those modules, start learning them.
I can link the modules in description box below.
Even the trailhead platform is linked in the description box below.
So you can completely check that out.
And one more thing that you need to do is create an account on salesforce.com.
Like you can create an account for free there and check all the functionalities such as
record type, validation rules and creating a field, how you can check the object manager.
So all of these things that you can do on the salesforce.com platform.
So learning that you can do from salesforce trailhead and the thing that you can practice
it on is on the salesforce.com site.
So I hope I didn't confuse you guys.
So I just there's two things are there, the trailhead.com and the salesforce.com.
So all the links are in the description box below.
And if you're planning for certification in salesforce, then you need to go to webassessor.com
where you can plan or schedule your salesforce certification according to your preference
and then you can give the exam.
And that is a later part, I think for you and talking about where you can apply.
So you can apply it on Nokri or on LinkedIn.
And the biggest question is, will I get the interview calls?
So I'd answer that question as well.
So if you search for salesforce developer on LinkedIn, you will see a lot of job post
out there.
There is one thing that you can see on the job post is the number of applicants to search
jobs are very less.
So that makes greater chances of you to get selected on the job.
And if you're applying for the companies such as Deloitte, Accenture or salesforce itself,
then you get the interview calls if you have one year of experience.
And if you are not experienced at all, then you still can learn those skills and apply
at Accenture or salesforce.
I was a fresher out there and I was getting the job interview calls for from those companies.
Right now I'm working as a salesforce data analyst, wherein my skills are salesforce
admin.
And I have also learned the salesforce development, but I know the data analysis as well.
So I'm working as a salesforce data analyst.
Also, if you're a YouTube fan, if you watch your audio tutorials on YouTube, then you
can search for Apex R or salesforce.
They have created a great playlist for Salesforce and you can learn those skills from them.
So yeah, one more thing before applying to the job post of Salesforce developer is that
please make a killer resume for your job of Salesforce because that will grab the recruiter's
attention and increase your chances to get selected in the particular role.
So always make sure to have a great resume before applying to any kind of job post that
you are doing.
And if you see the job post on LinkedIn for Salesforce development, you will see that
very few applicants apply for the job post because of the high demand and low skilled
person.
So yeah, this will definitely increase your chances to get the job offer and wish you
guys luck.
I hope this was helpful for you all and stay tuned.
Bye bye.