And I got it going. I got it. I got it. I got it. All right. What's going on? It's your boy.
As big. Thank you much for tuning in. All right. We're going to get straight into this video,
Amazon warehouse learning ambassador, pros and cons. But before we start, I honestly think this
is one of the most important roles in this building. They are training the brand new associate
and y'all know we get so many associates at Amazon. They're responsible for training them,
giving them the foundation of how to do the job. So we're going to get right into it and we'll
start with the cons. So con number one, can you take a wild guess? Take a wild guess.
If you work at Amazon, you already know con number one is no pay increase. Now this position
definitely should have a pay increase with you training new associates. Like I just said,
you are the first face. You were the first interaction. You are the first person to mold
and shape the people coming into the building. That's going to set the culture for the building.
So that definitely is a con, but in the long run, I think it is worth it depending on where you're
trying to go with the company, but this position does not come with a pay raise. All right. So con
number two, you need patience for this position. If you don't have patience, this is not the
position for you. You are coaching and coaching and coaching and onboarding and coaching and
retraining and especially onboarding. You were dealing with so many different types of people.
You are going to have times where you're teaching the class and everybody's just getting it. They
get it. They get it. They get it. It's like, okay, cool. Okay, cool. I see you bet. Okay. I knew my
training skills was on point, but then there's going to be those times where he's like, you're
going and you're teaching and they're like, but I don't get it. Okay. Well you do it.
But my bottom, my bottom, my phone, phone, phone. I still don't get it. Okay. Okay. Cool. Well,
let me break it down again. So you do this and you do this and you do this. I still don't get it.
There have been times with me being the ambassador. I had to break things down to like elementary
first day introduction. Hi, my name is you feel me like, and they still didn't get it.
Patience. You don't have patience. That's a con. Cause you're going to need it. All right. So
another con with the ambassador role, all these are my personal opinions, but I wasn't ambassador.
As you can tell, there were things that I wish could have been done a little bit different.
One of those things are the training you becoming a ambassador. You've taken in a
lot of information. You're learning the new tools, but not really. It's like a rushed learning.
I personally think it should be a little more detailed or they should walk you through it
fully to make sure that you fully understand how to code, fully understand what to code them to.
Because maybe in a PA, there's been plenty of times where the ambassadors would come up and be
like, um, I don't know how to give me the, give me, let me see, let me see. Give me the Kindle.
Give me the Kindle. And then I got to code them. Um, I wouldn't say like that though. Oh man,
no problem here. I got you. But inside I would just be like, come on learning. We've got to get
this together. All right. So the next con of being an ambassador, if you like to be any type of
indirect problem solve, water spider slam, whatever, if you like those positions, if they need you,
you're going to pull you to go be an ambassador. I remember when I was an ambassador, there were
very few times where I would come in. I just wanted to stow, you know what I mean? Just get lost in
the, in the pod. You feel me? Like they would come up. Oh man. Um, yeah, you weren't scheduled
today, but a few people didn't show up. I was like, ah man, yeah. You know, they're like, yeah,
I'm like, yeah. And we'll just sit there, you know, going to have that little awkward silence
because they don't want to tell me like, Hey, we need you, but I'm not going to sit there and
volunteer. I will make you tell me. But at the end of the day, they came back because they obviously
knew I didn't want to do it. So they were like, well, we'll see if there's someone else. Okay,
cool. You know, the, it already sounds good. And then they came back like, yeah, we don't have
anybody. All right. I'm signing out. Come on. Let's go. So they will pull you and they do have
first priority if you are needed as a ambassador. All right. So this is not a major con, but for
some people it is you are now looked up to, you are now held at a higher standard by management,
by the leadership. You are the first interaction with these people when they come into the building
they honestly don't know who you are. You know, there's ambassador. Like when I first got trained
at Amazon, I didn't know what my ambassador, what his role was in the building. I was like, yo,
he must be somebody official in here because he's training me right now. You know, and he got a
little vest on looking like a lemon walking around or a line. You know, I was like, okay, like, man,
this must be somebody important. And then there'll be times that I've heard associates go tell on the
ambassadors over something they've done, not because it was something serious, but just because
they were an ambassador. Oh man. You know, the ambassador you've been on his phone for like 10
minutes and it's just like that you are looked at, you know, because you are in their eyes,
a part of leadership. They expect you to lead the way to lead that example. If you don't want people
to look up to you, you don't want to be held at the higher standard, the learning ambassador position
may not be for you. All right. So this is a con that kind of goes along with the PA position as
well. If you are not a people person, you don't want this position. It's all you're doing is
dealing with people and then you are the first impression of the people that come into this
building. I've literally seen ambassadors with an attitude with day ones. Like how you got an attitude?
The first person they come into is if somebody with a vest who looks like they got authority
with an attitude, like how are you going to be mad at them for coming in day one? Like, like, listen,
don't be that ambassador. If you don't want to deal with people, don't be an ambassador. My opinion,
just don't do it. Now to the good part. All right. So this was my favorite part of being an ambassador.
You already know what I'm about to say right now. The away team. I'm going to keep it short
because I spoke on this a lot of times. I miss going on away teams now to this very day. I can't
even lie, but I first experienced my away team as an ambassador. I went to, I forgot, I opened up
one of these buildings, BFL one or it was one of the ones you haven't heard me talk about that yet.
If you are going to become an ambassador, go on an away team, dope experience, check through my
videos. I have a video called what is the away team? It'll kind of give you an explanation there.
Definitely a pro. You can take advantage of the away team. All right. So the second pro of being
a learning ambassador is you get to get off of your station. You get to mix it up. You're already
a quality associate. That's why you've been chosen for an ambassador role. So now you can stow or
pack whatever you're doing, your regular role, because honestly it helps your week go by faster
when you're doing different roles, especially as the ambassador, you're not doing much. You're
basically just standing back. You're just coaching. You're just teaching. It's not really hard. It
gives you more variety to do while you're working at Amazon. So the next pro is the experience. If
you plan on moving up in Amazon, this is definitely the gateway and the entrance to help get you some
experience. When I first became this learning ambassador, this position helped me out 2000%.
I cannot lie. The things that was done in this Jersey right here, I've coached over, what was it?
I think it was like over a thousand associates. I've onboarded over, I think it was like a hundred
and something classes. I forgot how many quotients I kept my stats. Don't play. I don't be playing
when it comes to my work in any area through all of that engagement. That's something that is key.
Not just in your learning ambassador, you're going to learn it here, but this is something that's
going to be key as a PA key as a area manager and anywhere else. Engagement is everything. If you
cannot engage with an associate, you probably aren't going to go far in your career anywhere
in any type of management. So this is a great position to get that experience on how to engage
with associates. All right. So if you plan on moving up in the company, another pro is this is
the position that will help you stand out. That is a fact. There were people who I know were
next in line before me, but me in this ambassador role definitely played a big part in me getting
bumped up and put into that PA position. Like I said, I've done so many coachings and so many
different things that they asked me to do. Not only did I do it, but I executed it in a way to
where it caused them to notice like, yo, this dude is killing it. Like, yo, he's doing a great job.
Yo, everybody loves him. Yo, he has a positive mindset. We know what we need this. So this is a
position where it's going to give you opportunity to prove yourself more than just being at a
stow station. More than just being at a pack station. Definitely gives you a chance to stand out.
All right. So this is a big pro in my book. It may not be a pro in your book, but each position
I've been in, this has been a big pro and I really experienced it a lot as an ambassador.
You get to help people. I know you said the edge of your seat, huh? You was like,
what are you going to say? That's it. Help people. Y'all so selfish. Why are y'all so selfish?
Why are you selfish? What you want me to say? A bonus? You want me to say this guaranteed position?
Well, y'all was on the edge of your seat, huh? And I said, help people. Y'all like, ah,
God, thanks. Next video. Yes, you can help people. One of the main ways that was going on at that time,
when it came to coaching, it was just a negative feedback. I would point out the parts that needed
to be fixed and needed to be developed, but I would always make sure I delivered that with a
strong point. Like, look, okay, your rates right here. We got to get that up to here. You know,
let's figure out what's the main barrier, but man, you're doing this over here. You killing it right
now. Pointing out the positives of their work. That really meant a lot to some associates.
Literally, there was a time this associate that was one of my, the class I was training
was literally shaking as he was stowing. Terrified. You feel me? It is like, I'm glad I was his
ambassador because I got to just encourage him. I've always pointed out his strong points. I was
right there with them. And by the time that our class was done, this dude was one of the top dudes
there. And he even came back to thank me. He was like, man, I wouldn't even made it if it wasn't
for you. I was so sick. And that's been time and time again. So, but this is definitely a position
where you can help people. You can encourage people. And that's the big pro in my book.
So overall, I think this is one of the most important positions in Amazon. And I think if
you are interested in this position, do it, kill it. It's definitely a lot of opportunity to stand
out and can get you in position for the next position, which is the PA. So this is your boy,
SB. I just wanted to drop some of that on you guys. I hope it was encouraging. If you're thinking
about being a learned ambassador, do it, but definitely go on the away team. If you do it
and take advantage of that because they don't pay you for a vacation. Let me clear that up.
They're going to pay you to launch a building and to do a job and to build up a team, but they are
going to pay for it. It's a business trip. Anyways, be sure to like, be sure to subscribe,
be sure to turn your post notifications on. It's your boy SB. Let's go.
I gotta go get it. I'ma go get it. So I gotta go get it.