Hey, today I'll be talking about how I got top 5 European jobs based on London, Paris,
Munich, Berlin and Amsterdam.
So stay till the end of the video to know all the details about it and let's get started.
So I have received software engineering offers from different companies.
So the first one is AdanaMix where the position was based on Munich, then Delivery Hero where
the position is based on Berlin, then FreeNow where the position is based on Paris and Booking.com
where the position is based on beautiful city called Amsterdam and then finally Facebook
where the position is based on London.
So let's roll back to the start of 2021 when I have started my software engineering career
search because I wanted to move to Europe and I wanted to look for top software engineering
jobs from Europe and I was based in India so I had another requirement of getting the visa
and all the relocation benefits so I need to filter out all the companies based on that.
There was two major ways where I targeted my applications.
So the first one was referral based application and the second one was directly go to the company
website and apply there.
So I think most of the time when I got interview calls it was 80% of the time where I have gone
to the company website and then applied over there and around 20% of time in the big giants
where I have taken a referral and then got a call from there.
So let's talk about start of 2021 around March where I started getting interview calls from
big tech companies in Europe which included Spotify, then Delivery Hero, Zalando, Personio,
Babel, Intercom, Google, Amazon and a lot of other startup companies.
If you want the whole list then you can go down to the link below and check all of them out.
So all of them all of the companies that I have mentioned they do offer relocation benefits which
includes visa sponsorship and other stuff as of the time when I interviewed there.
So now let's talk about the whole framework of the interviews of these companies.
So I can divide these companies into two major parts where the first part consists of startups
for example like Zalando and then Babel, Intercom all the smaller companies and then the other
part consists of the bigger companies where it comes like Spotify, Microsoft, Google, Amazon,
Facebook.
So there's a major difference between interviewing in the smaller startup with the comparison of
these bigger startups.
So the main difference is the architecture of the interviews.
So for example if you're interviewing in the smaller tech companies in the smaller startups
they kind of go in depth in your specific knowledge sets and where compared to if you
go to a bigger company for example the giant techs Facebook which is renamed as Meta right now.
It is more likely that you will get a set of software engineering algorithm based interviews
then a set of system design and architecture based interviews and then a set of behavioral
interviews.
So this framework is kind of fixed for Amazon, Facebook which is Meta right now, Microsoft
and Spotify and all those bigger tech giants and for smaller ones there can be multiple rounds.
They can go into bit technical in your current role for example if you are a Java guy or if
you're someone who works on Node.js there could be specific round only concentrated on Node.js.
There could be a specific round which can be only concentrated on Java or in-depth
knowledge of Java.
So these are the main differences.
So let me just draw down abstract view of how the interviews were for me.
So for smaller companies the interview process started with HR catch up where we talked about
our common interests where I am interested to go in in the future and what are my technical
skills why I am interested in the specific company and once I cleared that there was
an assignment round where I need to build a small feature and code it up and send it
to a reviewer.
If you passed then you go to the next round which will be a set of interviews.
This can also be set at onsites.
So in these interviews what you'll generally do is go through a set of algorithm rounds
maybe a set of in-depth technical discussions and more like a tech behavioral rounds and
purely behavioral rounds.
So these are the main things that you'll have in smaller startup companies but in
bigger tech companies for example like Facebook and other companies you will have very defined
interview process where you will go to for example I can talk about Amazon, Google and
Facebook where I have interviewed.
So there was specific algorithm based interviews then few of them were system design based
interviews and then few of them are purely tech behavioral and behavioral based interviews.
So these are all the interview rounds that I have kind of faced.
If you want more details about this do let me know in the comment section and I'll make
a separate video explaining each of the companies interview sets and my experiences.
Now let's talk about the fun part.
So when you clear all the interviews then you go to a negotiation phase where you negotiate
your compensation details and salary details to HR and you get the offer.
So I'll be creating another video explaining the process of negotiation and how you can
negotiate properly so that you get what you want and what you deserve.
Now it's time to talk about the preparation.
So how did I prepare to get all these jobs.
So I have started my preparation a bit before.
So I've started my preparation on 2020 where I was a complete noob.
So I started with the basics of algorithms the basics of data structures.
I revised all the concepts and I started with lead code to start coding.
Let me tell you lead code is one of my favorite platform to drill down algorithm and data
structure questions.
Please make sure you brush up all your data structure and algorithm concepts just to make
your fundamentals clear because that is very important and then you can jump on this coding
platforms for example hacker rank you can go to lead code and you can go to hacker earth
and you can go to all these websites and then practice your coding skills.
So you can start with easy problems on all those sites and they generally will be indicated
that whether a problem is easy or hard or medium and then you can gradually go up to
medium and hard and all those super hard questions.
So you have the practice platform you have your algorithm and data structure brushed up.
All you need is to give some dedicated time and some fresh mind to kind of work on all
those problems.
The next and the tricky part is system design interviews.
Now there is also a great set of resources out there for system design interviews.
What you need to do is you need to again clear your fundamentals and the basics of system
design.
There is a system design primer in github where you can get all the links get all the
syllabus of the system design.
I know there is no syllabus because this whole thing is huge and there is unlimited learning
that is possible but still you'll get an outline of what to read and where to start off.
So I think that is a very good resource.
Now let's go to the last part where you take interviews are done and now we are jumping
into the behavioral interviews.
Now these interviews can be quite tricky because these interviews are kind of related to your
past experience where your interviewer could ask you about talk about a time when you did
this or talk about a time when you face this.
You have to prepare the answer for that before the hand with your past experience.
Then this can be tricky and if you want me to make a video about that also let me know
in the comment section.
So if you want me to talk more about any specific details or any specific part of this then
let me know in the comment section and I'll be happy to do that.
So do subscribe to the channel for more info about interviews,
Europe, jobs and see you guys in the next video.
Bye bye.