Hey everyone, I welcome you all to the live session on how to become a Salesforce business
analyst.
This session is conducted by an expert having more than 15 plus years of industry experience.
So before we move on with a live session, please subscribe to our channel.
And also if you want upcoming updates, please hit the bell icon and also leave a like if
you enjoy our content.
Hello everybody.
In this video, we will be discussing about Salesforce business analyst and associated
topics.
This is the agenda for today's session and we will be discussing about Salesforce business
analyst, how to become one, roles and responsibilities, skills required and an overview of the Salesforce
software.
We will conclude by gathering insights to various courses in this field.
Introduction to Salesforce business analyst.
So what is a Salesforce business analyst?
A Salesforce business analyst is one of the business analysts working on the customer
relationship.
These professionals work with IT professionals to find technical solutions to business problems.
They are the mediators between the IT professionals and stakeholders and are accountable to the
customer queries and solving their problems.
They do so by connecting the end user to the respective departments.
Salesforce business analysts are also responsible for end user acceptance.
Let's move on to the operations of a Salesforce business analyst.
What does a Salesforce business analyst do?
A Salesforce business analyst is a mediator between the stakeholders or assembly and the
IT professionals.
Stakeholders put forward the business problems faced by them to the Salesforce business analyst
and they discuss the issue with IT professionals and come up with a technical solution.
And the Salesforce business analysts make sure that these solutions are implemented
accordingly.
These professionals communicate with people from different departments and the customers
to pass on required information.
These professionals communicate with the stakeholders and inquire about various aspects of the projects.
They file documents of the research done based on the stakeholder learnings.
Then they analyze and review requirements and implement solutions accordingly.
The final process includes testing the solutions designed.
Also Salesforce business analysts ensure that business automation and data management are
smooth and well established.
Let's get to know how to become a Salesforce business analyst.
The minimum qualification required is the bachelor's degree.
A bachelor's degree in a field related to data science and IT is preferable.
Certifications in various products and services of Salesforce software such as cloud services
and administrator and app builder are also a must.
Along with these requirements, the following acquaintances are needed to become a professional
in Salesforce business analysis.
One should be able to get over with stakeholder management, data analysis fundamentals and
business communication.
Along with this, one should be experienced in using, designing and charting out the rule
principles, work processes and security controls on Salesforce or similar CRM platforms.
Also, one should be experienced in handling multiple undertakings while working in a collective
group.
One should be well versed with platforms such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Visio
and Project Experienced in executing the platform of Salesforce CRM using software development
lifecycle.
Listed here are the roles and responsibilities of a Salesforce business analyst.
Connect with stakeholders and business partners to discuss the customer requirements and related
problems.
Connect to the team of developers for discussion on the technical matters of the Salesforce
software.
Direct the authorities and help them by providing insights to devise a plan of action.
Should make sure that there is a clear understanding of concepts amongst the personnel involved.
Train the other executives in the Salesforce team by providing them with suitable and practical
training.
Explain to the Salesforce team the various operations of the Salesforce in different
fields.
Contain security of the information acquired from the software by working on the visibility
of the tools and platforms.
Create multiple dashboards to cater to the needs of the Salesforce users by taking into
consideration the business functionalities and requirements.
Now let's see what are the skills required to become a Salesforce business analyst.
High-level analytical and problem-solving skills, strong ability to engage and influence
stakeholders at any instance, expertise and time management and should be able to prioritize
tasks, use initiative and be self-directed to meet deadlines, excellent interpersonal
and communication skills.
Just a quick info guys, Intellipaat provides Salesforce online training mentored by industry
experts.
The course link is given in the description below.
Now let's continue with the session.
Superior organization skills with accuracy of tasks, eager to learn and committed to
developing skills and knowledge, self-motivated and able to work confidently, diplomatic with
an ability to work with a flexible approach in a changing environment.
Now let's proceed to know about the Salesforce software.
Salesforce CRM is a cloud-based software that helps organizations to effectively streamline
their sales and marketing operations.
This is a CRM software that is customer relationship management software used by Salesforce business
analysts.
The various cloud features offered by Salesforce are Salesforce sales cloud, commerce cloud,
app cloud, marketing cloud, analytics cloud, service cloud and the community cloud.
Other features of Salesforce are force.com.
It allows admins and developers to create websites and applications into the main application.
App exchange, an online application marketplace for third-party applications that run on force.com
platform.
Heroku enterprise gives developers the flexibility to create apps using preferred tools.
Salesforce thunder, a big data and rules processing engine designed to analyze events and take
personalized actions.
Salesforce sandbox allows developers to test ideas in a safe and isolated environment.
In this slide, the salary trends in Salesforce business analysts vary with countries as shown
in this figure.
In the United States, salary of a Salesforce business analyst ranges from 100,000 to 130,000
USD.
In the United Kingdom, it ranges from 40,000 to 65,000 GBP.
In Germany, it ranges from 45,000 to 600,000 EUR.
In France, it ranges from 35,000 to 65,000 EUR.
Whereas in Australia, it ranges from 100,000 to 150,000 AUD.
Average Salesforce business analyst salary in India is around 21.1 lakhs for employees
with experience between 5 years to 10 years.
Business analyst salary at Salesforce ranges between 14 lakhs to 32 lakhs.
Let's conclude by discussing about the top prospects of Salesforce business analysts.
As discussed earlier, Salesforce business analysts will have a great career ahead given
that they are qualified and equipped with the required skills.
There are various benefits in being a Salesforce business analyst, which include overall enhanced
product efficiency, optimized organization processes, outstanding customer experience
and greater earnings.
Just a quick info guys, Intellipaat provides Salesforce online training mentored by industry
experts.
The course link is given in the description below.
So guys, we have come to the end of our session.
I hope you all enjoyed it.
For any questions that you have related to coding, you can mention it in the comment
sections below.
So thank you so much for attending this session and meet you in another session.