Hello everyone, welcome back to CareerQ and I am back again with a new video in which
I will be reviewing another company and another major service based company which hires a
lot of freshers and a lot of people and that is IBM.
IBM is also one of the major players of the service based companies and it is among the
big players like Accenture, TCS, Wipro, etc etc etc.
In today's video, I will be talking all about IBM, the things that you need to know, should
you join it as a fresher, how the work culture is like, what are the hikes, what is the salary,
how are the trainings given and a lot more.
So if you are someone who has visited our channel for the first time, don't forget
to hit the subscribe button and without further ado, let's get started.
Okay, the one position in which freshers are taken in within IBM is that of associate and
as an associate, the basic salary that you will be getting is somewhere around 4 to 4.5
lakh depending on the different softwares and depending on different colleges that IBM
goes to.
So that is the base or the starting salary and the starting position from where freshers
get hired.
So if we talk about trainings, then IBM is one organization that does a distribution
of domain way before you are getting trained.
So once you have joined, they put you into certain domain and then they give you training
depending on the domain that they have put you into.
So you can be in the Java domain, the training for that is somewhere around 1 to 1.5 months
or you can be in some other domain where a higher amount of training is required.
So that training can last for 3 to 4 months as well.
But the duration is not fixed.
It only comes to light once you have joined and once you have got your domain.
Now how are these domains selected?
Then that is also completely random and which domain you are put in, you have no control
over it and they just look into your profile.
They might have some algorithm to segregate you into separate domains.
However, that is not something that we can tell you which domain you will be going.
If we talk about the quality of trainings, then the quality is fairly good and you get
to know a lot of things.
So actually the training, for whatever duration you get, the trainings are of good quality
and you get to learn a lot of things.
So can you join in as a fresher?
Yes, because you will get a lot of knowledge here.
Another thing is that once the training is over, you are further put into different projects.
Now this project distribution is also completely random and you or your performance in the
training and those factors, they don't really play much in this decision of which project
you will be going into.
However, one thing that you can be rest assured is that you will be learning a lot whichever
project you go into because the work culture that is present in IBM is considered to be
one of the best when compared to the other service based organizations.
IBM freshers are actually given a good opportunity to work in the project and to know more about
it.
So yes, you will be learning a lot when you are put into the project also.
It can be a support project or it can be a development project, whatever it may be, you
will be learning.
That is the main point.
If we talk about the types of projects that IBM has, then IBM also has a majority of support
and maintenance kind of projects.
And although there are a lot of development projects as well, but still if you've seen
the ratio kind of, the ratio in which the support projects are there, the numbers are
much higher when compared to the development.
So as I've previously said, the work culture in IBM is really good and it is professional.
So you know people, they treat you professionally and there's a lot of professionalism.
That's only that I'm going to say.
The work culture is good and you won't feel like you have to run away off it and you have
to leave the organization the other day because you are so frustrated by your manager and
you are overloaded with something.
Those are not there since the work culture is good.
The work life balance automatically becomes good.
And that is why the stress and burnout factors are lesser heard.
These such cases are lesser heard when we talk about IBM.
However, there is one thing and probably one of the major reasons why employees have to
make a switch after a few years of joining.
The reason being the less amount of salary hike that is given each year and the complexity
when it comes to promotions.
So getting a promotion in IBM becomes a major task and a difficult one, I would say, because
generally the promotions, I don't know what algorithm goes behind it, but people do not
get promoted easily.
They have to work a lot.
They have to take a lot of effort before they get promoted.
And you know, without promotion, the basic salary hike that you get in IBM is somewhere
around 5 to 6 percent.
Sometimes if the organization does very good, then you can expect somewhere around 8 percent.
Generally, this is the range from 5 to 8 percent, which is not much.
And since you do not get higher promotion, you know, staying after one to two years,
if you do not switch in, then you will be lagging behind or, you know, your counterparts
or your peers will be getting much more when compared to you.
So the freshers are not really left with much of an option.
They generally go in for this switch after working for one or two years in IBM.
Apart from this, I think this is the only con that is there in IBM.
And actually, this is a big con.
We cannot say that it's not.
I will make a different video on the salary structure that IBM follows in a separate one
because it needs a good detailing.
And if I put this put that factor also in this video, this video will be very long and
all of you will run away.
I know that for sure.
Anyways, so the final thing is the employee benefits that IBM gives.
So IBM gives all the normal average benefits that almost all other service based organizations
are giving.
There are some travel and transport communication benefits that are there.
There are some internet reimbursements that IBM gives.
Apart from that, there is medical insurance and also some food coupons and those things
that you get from IBM.
And it's probably you get from all other service based companies.
So not nothing major.
But yes, you do get these benefits.
Coming back to the one question that whether you should join in as a fresher, then yes,
you should definitely join in as a fresher if you've got a chance because the training
and the work culture and the learnings that you will that will occur in this place will
be really good.
And then of course, after having learned for one or two years, you can make a switch to
grow financially as well.
So that's all I have for you in today's video.
As I said, I will be making another video to describe all the salary structure that
is followed.
But for now, that's all that I have.
And if you have anything else in mind, if I've missed out on any point, then please
put them down in the comment section so that we help everyone.
And if there is any other organization that you want me to review, then put the names
down as well.
If you have any other queries, concerns, suggestions that you want me you want to give to me, then
put them down as well.
I'll come again with another new video.
Till then, stay tuned to Career Queue.
Thanks for watching.
Take care.
Bye.