Hey everyone, welcome back to my channel.
My name is Emily and I talk a lot about Salesforce.
Today we're going to be talking about the pros and cons of using
Salesforce for your company.
I have been doing Salesforce for over 10 years now, first as an end user,
and then as an admin, and now I create helpful content like this.
And I also create certification courses for Salesforce.
I am a little bit biased when it comes to Salesforce, but I do recognize
that Salesforce just plain out isn't for everyone or for every company's situation.
So without further ado, let's go ahead and jump in to the pros and cons list.
All right, let's go ahead and jump into the pros first.
Salesforce is really, really awesome at automations.
Automations can make your life easier and can save your company time and money.
You can create automations to, as a click of a button, fill out a
docu-sign form with all the information that you've already put into Salesforce
and send it to your client so they can sign that and get your company going
on the next steps with that client.
It can be really useful for creating renewal opportunities.
If your company has a subscription based model that has to be
renewed every year with the client.
And most automations can be done with little to no code.
Your basic senior admin can do a lot of different automations and make
your business processes go a lot smoother and faster.
Salesforce can also house all of your data or most of your data.
There are different places and different aspects of Salesforce.
Mainly we can talk about is marketing can hold most of your marketing endeavors.
It can hold most of your service tickets that come in from your customers
to service them and to get them on their merry way to enjoy your product.
As well as of course, Salesforce can do all of your sales right there.
They also have different aspects of commerce where you can set up.
It's similar to Shopify where you can set up a product and have that be in the back end.
You can also customize stuff to make it right for you.
All right.
Number three is that they can process payments.
This is an add-on and it's very similar to how Stripe does things.
But you can do that in-house with Salesforce.
Number four is Salesforce can keep you on track with the use of AI.
They can help you keep your deals and your service people on track to hit their
quotas and close deals and keep up with customers and with people who need to be
followed up with on multiple aspects of the business.
And number five, Salesforce is great for teamwork.
They have a Slack integration.
And so you can Slack about different opportunities or different records that
you find within Salesforce.
You can also create different groups of teams within Salesforce.
Here's an example.
Let's say we had a blue product and a green product and you had a blue and a
green product expert and you had your regular sales rep just working on an
opportunity and they really needed help with the green product expert.
You'd be able to add the green product expert onto their opportunity team so
then they could come and help clarify some questions that the client has and
help them into a better decision.
Same with blue as well.
The product expert can come onto that.
This doesn't just work on opportunities.
You can also do this on accounts and cases.
So then the blue and the green product expert can help service those tickets.
All right, so now let's go ahead and move on to the cons.
Salesforce is pretty expensive.
A base license of your regular enterprise software or enterprise Salesforce
licenses is it's about $150 per user per month to use Salesforce.
That can be pretty expensive.
You can get discounts if you go there at the right time to get your deals done,
as well as if you have a lot of users on Salesforce.
Fun fact, Salesforce's fiscal year ends at the end of January.
So January is about the time when you're wanting to renew your contracts.
So then you can get the best deals and discounts cause they are pretty
incentivized to get those deals through the door at that end of the fiscal year.
Salesforce also has lots of add-ons.
Like I've mentioned before, you could add on billing and CPQ, but these are
going to be extra in addition to that $150 per month, as well as the
talent is pretty expensive as well.
Average admin salaries or senior admin salaries can be around $100,000,
depending on where you're at in the country.
And if you are onshore versus offshore, but it really just depends on where
you're at and how much help you need within your Salesforce org.
Another pro is if you don't have the funds, it kind of sucks.
If you don't have the funds to get the products that you want to really
customize out your Salesforce org.
And if you're running a very lean startup, it's not going to be good for you.
Um, however, if you are in the nonprofit space, there are discounts that you can
get from Salesforce to, to make the software cheaper and also have it be a
little bit more customized out of the box for you, um, when you get Salesforce.
Another con is that you can find similar versions of the same thing in other
products for a lot cheaper.
Uh, for example, you can find HubSpot.
It's very similar to Salesforce and it is really good if you are just barely
getting your boots on the ground with your company, you still want to capture
customer data, you still want to CRM.
If you're looking to save money, definitely check out HubSpot.
And number four and the final con, at least for this video is going to be that
the upkeep of Salesforce and the data as well as the errors can be pretty
uncomfortable and really difficult to get around, especially if you don't
have the team to support it.
Salesforce is really prone to errors within custom configurations.
And so if your company isn't quite ready to take on a lot of Salesforce talent,
then it won't be a good, a good spot for you.
I still think Salesforce is great.
And if you are a larger or mid-sized enterprise company and you're wanting to
house all your data and use all these different things, and you have a good
amount of funds ready to go, then definitely check out Salesforce.
Um, if you're trying to be a very lean startup and you aren't quite ready to
have a lot of people on your database, then definitely check out other solutions
such as HubSpot or monday.com.
But without further ado, um, if you have any questions, be sure to leave them
down below, I'll be happy to answer them as soon as possible.
Check out the links down below.
I create certification courses on Salesforce at SalesforceHubskill.com.
Find me on LinkedIn at EmilyKahlMBA.
Thank you so much and have a good one.