What is up guys I'm back with yet another Amazon video and this time I wanted to give you guys 10 tips that I wish I had known before working at Amazon.
But first I wanted to apologize about the lighting. It's 2 in the morning right now and I work overnight shifts at Amazon so this is the time I'm usually up.
And I'm recording this in my car because all of my family's asleep and I didn't want to wake any of them up.
But yeah to try to fix that I brought a little lava lamp in here but I'm starting to realize that it's not doing anything and I'm just dumb.
But with that being said here are 10 tips that I wish I had known before I started working at Amazon.
So number 10, Amazon has a point system and if you accumulate too many of these points you will get fired.
But I believe the number you're looking to avoid is 6. I can put a bit more detail right here.
But most of these points are accumulated by either being late, leaving early or missing an entire shift.
And of course the more you're late the more points are going to be given to you on that certain occasion.
So yeah basically just don't be late, try to come on time and you won't have to worry about this point system.
But this 6 point system is definitely something I wish I knew before I started working at Amazon.
Number 9, your weekly rates, they're not given. But I'm not sure if this is just on my location but I've been working there for about a month.
And during this time period I've never been given a weekly stowing rate.
I've been given a lot of daily stowing rates but in the end your weekly picking or stowing average is all that matters in keeping your job.
So if you're going to be working at an Amazon warehouse soon don't expect any sort of weekly analysis of your productivity without having to ask your manager privately.
Number 8, warning and write-ups. So this first part might be obvious to you but if you do anything against Amazon policy you're going to be given a warning.
And then if you do anything against Amazon policy again you're going to be given a write-up.
And if you get 3 write-ups in a certain amount of time you're going to be fired.
But the thing that a lot of people don't know and something that I wish I knew is that there's actually a rollover period for both warnings and write-ups.
So for warnings, say for example you are listening to music which is against Amazon policy and you get written up by a manager that happens to see you.
They're going to treat it as a write-up but since it was your first incident you're actually going to be given a warning.
But if you stay clean for the next 30 days this warning will actually be dismissed and you will no longer have any sort of warnings or write-ups under your name.
But say for example you do something against Amazon policy again before these 30 days have elapsed.
This time you're going to be given a write-up and these write-ups are actually a lot harder to clear out.
So for write-ups it actually takes 90 days of not obtaining any additional violations before being dismissed.
But yeah this 30 and 90 day rollover period is something that I think everyone should know about before they start working at Amazon.
Number 7. The time your shift actually starts and ends.
So I noticed this issue not only happened for me but happened to a lot of people that I work with.
And it's that our actual shift schedule is slightly different than the ones we signed up for online.
So for me specifically, and you can even go back to the previous videos where I talked about my shift schedule.
I talked about how my shift schedule was from 6pm to 6.30am.
But when I look at the actual shift time on the Amazon A to Z app, it actually shows me that my shift schedule is from 6.15pm to 6.45am.
And for me this gave me some issues until I actually noticed it.
I would be clocking into work too late and then clocking out of work too early.
So yeah this actually caused me to pick up some of those points that I talked about in tip number 10.
But I'm actually glad I noticed it or else I would have picked up way more points.
So for those of y'all who are going to be working at Amazon soon, make sure to check for your shift time on the Amazon A to Z app.
Because this is going to contain the actual shift that you're going to need to attend and it might be different from the one you signed up for online.
Number 6, overtime hours.
So one of the things I was confused about before I started was how overtime was going to work for my shift specifically.
Because I'm on the reduced time shift so I'm working 3 shifts that are each 12 hours long for a total of 36 hours.
So I wasn't sure if overtime would have technically started at the 37th hour or if I needed to have worked up until 40 hours and then every hour after that would be considered overtime.
But then I later realized that it starts at 40 so for me specifically I would have needed to pick up an extra shift and the first 4 hours would not have been considered overtime.
And then all exceeding hours past 40 would have been overtime.
But another thing that I wanted to know was exactly how many hours would Amazon let you work in one week.
And I later found out that the most hours that Amazon will let you work in one week is actually 60 and during this one week period you are not allowed to work 7 days in a row.
The most you could possibly work would be 6 in a row.
Number 5, when you're in the warehouse Amazon knows everything that you're doing.
Amazon is a very technology driven company so they're going to make sure to use all of their resources in order to know everything that their workers are doing while they're on their property.
For example, they're going to know when you enter or leave the building. They're going to know when you clock in and when you clock out.
They're going to know what station you're working at and the time it takes you to stow or pick your first item when you get there.
They're going to know how many items you're picking or stowing in an hour.
They're going to know when you're purposely away from your station trying to take a break.
They're going to know when you're walking down the hall.
They're going to know when you're sitting down instead of working.
they're even gonna know when you're tying your shoes.
So basically just know that even though it might seem
like no one's watching you while you're working,
just know that someone has an eye on you at all times
and they're gonna make sure that you're doing the work
that they want you to do while you're on the clock.
Number four, you get paid time off.
So this is something that I wish I knew about
before I started working at Amazon.
And it doesn't matter if you're a seasonal
or a full-time employee,
but how it works is every time you work 24 hours,
it doesn't matter if it's in a week, in two weeks,
or even in a month.
Every time you work 24 hours,
you're gonna be gifted one hour of paid time off.
And yeah, this is something I didn't know about
until about two weeks in,
when I looked at A to Z
and I saw these personal time hours accumulating.
And these paid time off hours can be used anytime you want
and they're gonna be given to you on paydays,
which are Fridays.
So yeah, I think this would be useful
to anyone who's gonna be working at Amazon soon.
All right, so these last three are actually my favorite
because I feel like they are gonna be most useful
to new employees.
So number three, you can actually use your paid time off
hours to correct being late.
And yeah, this is actually something I had no idea about
until one day I forgot my ID and I was forced to be late.
And so I called up human resources later in the week
and they actually told me that I could use
my personal paid time off hours in order to fix this.
And I think this is very useful because say for example,
an emergency comes up or there's a lot of traffic one day,
instead of being late and obtaining these points
that I mentioned in tip number 10,
you can actually use a bit of this paid time off hour
in order to correct it.
And you won't be actually charged of a full hour,
you can actually use fractions of it.
So if you were only 10 minutes late,
you would actually only lose 10 minutes
of your paid time off hour, which I think is really nice.
So yeah, I found this piece of information
that they gave me really useful
and it's something that I wish I knew about earlier.
Number two, shift grace periods.
So this is actually a tip that I think
every new Amazon employee should know about.
And it's that you can actually clock in
up to five minutes after your shift starts
and up to five minutes before your shift ends
without any sort of penalty.
And this is similar for clocking in and out
for lunch breaks as well.
You can actually clock in up to three minutes
after your lunch break ends and up to three minutes
before your lunch break starts.
But as you work longer and longer at Amazon,
I think this is something
that you're gonna be able to pick up on.
And I think that this tip is just something
that Amazon doesn't want a lot of their new employees
to know about because they feel like
their employees would just abuse this.
But I think this tip would have been useful to me
and others before we had all started working at Amazon.
So before I give you my number one tip,
make sure to hit that like button.
It takes about two seconds
and it really helps out our channel.
But with that being said, let me give you my number one tip.
Number one, you can actually clock in early
and clock out late and you will get paid for that time.
And I'm not advising for anyone to do this,
but I think it's important to know
that you're getting paid for all the time
that you're still on the clock
and that your pay is not just restricted
to your normal shift schedule.
And what I mean by this is say for example,
my shift starts at 6.15 and I clock in at six
and it ends at 6.45 and I clock out at seven.
I actually just worked an additional 30 minutes
that was not scheduled during my shift
that I will get paid for.
And again, I'm not advising for anyone to do this,
but say for example, your shift ends at 6.45,
you can finish working at 6.45
and take as long as you want to leave the building
and just know that for all that time you're taking
before you clock out, you're getting paid for.
You can think about it like this.
Say you work four days a week at 10 hours each shift
and you decide to clock in early or clock out late,
totaling to 15 minutes each shift.
This means by the end of the week,
you would have worked an additional 60 minutes or one hour.
And because your original shift
was already totaled to be 40 hours,
this additional hour that you worked
would put you past the 40 hour threshold,
which means you would be entitled to overtime pay.
So this one extra hour that you worked,
you would be paid at 1.5 times your original pay.
All right guys, so that was my top 10 tips
that I wish I had known before I started working at Amazon.
So for me personally, I feel like I would have benefited
from some of these tips if I had known about them earlier on,
especially if they'd been about being late
or possibly getting extra pay.
And I hope some of this information can be useful
to those of y'all who are gonna be working at Amazon soon.
But yeah, let us know in the comments below
if you found any of these tips useful.
And if you're a current employee,
let us know if you learn anything new.
And with that being said, like the video,
subscribe if you haven't already.
We got more videos coming soon,
and I'll see you guys later.