Hello and welcome everyone. If you are new to this channel then my name is Amit Patel
and you are watching Musings with Software Engineers. If you are new then subscribe to
this channel because on this channel I share ideas, insights, tools and tactics that can help you grow
in the software industry. So if you want to grow really really fast in the software industry then
subscribe to this channel now and press the bell icon so that you will know when I go live on this
channel. Hi Mayank how are you? Sir the future of Salesforce. Mayank's future of Salesforce is very
very good. The reason is this. So Salesforce is a CRM application. Salesforce started a CRM
application. But Salesforce is a pioneer in SaaS programming. Salesforce is the first company which
started software as a service. When all the companies were working on desktop development
or server-based development, server-based application development, Salesforce decided
that we are going to build a CRM application which will work on the internet. This is as early as I
think 1995 or 1998 or 99. I don't know the exact year. I don't have the exact timing of this but
this was as back as that time. And they said that our software will be such, our CRM software will be
such that you will not have to download it and install it on any machine. You can directly use
it from the internet. If you have an internet connection our software will be useful from the
internet. So they are a pioneer in SaaS application. They are also a pioneer in cloud-based application
because any SaaS application is a cloud-based application. All the cloud-based applications
that you see today, they use a Salesforce kind of template. They use the similar thought process,
similar technology, even sometimes the pricing model, the recurring pricing model that people
are using that they use from Salesforce. So Salesforce is way ahead in its league as a SaaS
application developer. Now if you see the CRM market, the big players in CRM are Salesforce,
Microsoft Dynamics and there are a few more. There is SAP of course but SAP is used more in
the manufacturing companies than on the CRM side. But there are a few CRM applications.
Zoho is one CRM application but Salesforce even within this pack is the leading company in CRM.
If you become an engineer who learns Salesforce, who learns building application on Salesforce,
Salesforce is also a tool where you can extend the Salesforce application by writing your own
code and building an extension to Salesforce and that is what Salesforce is known for. So you will
have the CRM application. You will have a lot of features and modules which are automatically
given by the CRM bit but beyond that you can extend this application. You can extend this
application to any level. So if an engineer becomes a Salesforce expert, so as a software engineer
you have to develop your prowess and what do you mean by prowess is expertise and what is an
expertise? Expertise is in specialization. Now you are not just a software engineer,
now you are a software engineer with knowledge of Salesforce. Now you understand the Salesforce
CRM application really well. You are not just able to use the features of CRM application
but you are able to extend the features of CRM application. That will give you an advantage
over a lot of other engineers and because Salesforce is a leading company in CRM,
you will never be out of job for your next 30-40 years because Salesforce will keep developing.
So now they are using artificial intelligence and machine learning within their code. They will use
all the new technology, data science, they will be using, they will use big data, all these technologies
they will incorporate within their CRM application to help their industry, the CRM industry,
with whatever new technologies are coming in. So even if you are a Salesforce engineer,
you can also do AI and ML within that Salesforce application. So the whole point is,
I am trying to make is the future of a software engineer who is working on Salesforce is really
good and if you are on that, specialize yourself, become an expert in that, so good that automatically
then you will start differentiating your salary from other engineers. Because I see a lot of
engineers who feel that we should not learn these tools. See this is a tool, Salesforce is a tool
which has been developed for the CRM industry. It's a tool for a CRM industry and people think
we should not learn about these tools. These tools are not useful, I should just be a programmer.
But being a programmer is just a mason's work. Being a programmer is the lowest level of work
you can be at if you just know programming. But when you start improving your programming by
being able to design something, start improving your programming by learning various tools that
are there in the market which are leading tools. Salesforce is one leading tool, another is Microsoft
Dynamics which is also a leading CRM application developer and Microsoft is a known name. So they
are also into this but they are both in competition but Salesforce is ahead of Microsoft as far as CRM
industry is concerned. So it's a very good future if you are building your expertise on Salesforce.
Do a specialization and this is a kind of specialization.