Hello guys, now I am going to share my experience in Oracle on campus interview.
Oracle came for our college for recruiting further role associate software engineer.
It offered about 16.64 CTC.
There were 5 rounds.
First was an online MCQ test followed by the coding test and there were 2 technical interviews
and finally a HR round.
In the first round that is online MCQ test, around 360 students have taken the test and
there were 82 MCQs and the total time was 107 minutes.
It was conducted on Oracle Pro aptitude platform.
The questions were based on aptitude, from aptitude, logical reasoning, quantitative
reasoning and verbal.
And from data structures, they mostly concentrated on the topics trees and linker list.
Most of the questions were asked from the concepts of binary search tree, heap, AVL
tree and tree traversal techniques.The core subjects which were asked in the exam were DBMS, operating systems and C and
computer networks.
The basic sorting and searching algorithms were given and the questions were asked about
the time complexities i.e. the best time complexity or the worst time complexities
and also few loops were given where we need to predict the best or worst time complexity.
The second round was online coding test.
It was conducted on the same Oracle Pro aptitude platform and they gave 2 coding questions
and the allotted time was 60 minutes.
Only 3 coding languages were allowed and not all the versions of C++ or Java are allowed.
Only the basic versions of C++ and Java are allowed.
Here the programming languages which were allowed are C, C++ and Java.
For these 2 questions, I could say one was a graph based question which was a medium
level and other was searching a string in a grid.
For this question, the concepts of DFS and backtracking are required where I have solved
about 1.5 questions and all the people who have solved more than 1 question have qualified
for the interview.
And coming to this online coding test, around 60 students have taken part in this online
coding test and among the 60, 23 were able to solve at least one problem in the given
2 problems and they are qualified for the interview.
Around 23 students have been qualified for the interview.
Coming to the interview, before this interview there was a PPT conducted by the company and
I say that it is compulsory to attend the PPT and listen carefully about the Oracle
and its GBU units.
Coming to the first round, it was technical interview.
It was a face to face interview.
For me it was about 50 minutes and the first interviewer asked me that tell me about yourself.
So I could briefly explain myself starting from my background and my education and also
coming to the positions of responsibilities and my projects and my internship.
Then a detailed discussion went about my recent project.
Next the interviewer asked me the Python questions.
In Python he asked me about slicing and difference between a list and tuple.
As company is much oriented with the database, the interviewer asked me about the primary
key, unique key, integrity constraints and schema.
Next he gave me a coding question where the two strings were given and to check whether
the two strings are anagrams or not.
So I gave him 4 optimizations starting from the brute force.
Then later he just asked me to check whether two strings will be anagram and if they are
to be anagram the number of swaps which we must make in strings.
When I was coding the interviewer asked me about the importance of break statement and
the importance of break statement in Java after using the written statement.
Next at the last of this interview he just asked me about what do you know about oracle.
I could explain what I know about the oracle and the things which I have listened from
the ppt-preplacement talk.
And also he has asked me about the different gbu units and later he has stressed me this
question that why not the higher studies.
This higher studies discussion for me went about 5 minutes where I gave a detailed reasoning
and he was counter questioning me.
So successfully I completed this technical interview 1 and coming to this technical interview
2 the first question was same that is tell me about yourself.
And then he gave me a coding question to find the frequency of each letter and word in a
given sentence.
I gave him 3 optimization techniques and he gave me another question to find the duplicate
elements in an array.
For this question I gave him 6 optimizations and next he asked me about the linker list
applications and though connected with this linker list he went in depth with this discussion
of linker list, double E linker list and circular linker list.
And then I have done my internship on this web RTC web real time communication.
So the discussion went on this web real time communication and he gave me few edge cases
where I could where I can use this web RTC over the zoom and google meet.
And next as I mentioned in my resume as I am working as CER and PC so he asked me about
my positions of responsibilities and then the next question was this linear and non-linear
data structures.
As I mentioned in the resume about my SQL hacker ranking so he asked me about it and
also gave me few queries where I was able to solve the queries and the basic DBMS questions
were asked further.
Finally even I could clear this technical interview too and then I entered the last
round that is HR round.
And first question was about my recent project and detailed discussion about my recent project
went and he asked me about in depth questions about the constraints and I cannot use this
project few test cases or few examples where I cannot use this project or where this project
is limited up to.
And then next question was about my positions of responsibilities and he asked me about
the to detail about the procedure in which I took these responsibilities and how I am
working and about my pressure situations taking up these responsibilities.
And then he asked me about the best and worst project reasoning and my about my major project
idea.
Then he gave me few case studies.
One of the few case studies which he gave was to prepare a application that can be used
for street vendors.
He asked me to list out the constraints or the basic test cases which I will be considering
when creating an application for the street vendors.
And next he asked me that if I could work for a company which offers me a project of
about 25 years.
Software development lifecycle discussion went through and he have asked me about the
different levels of testing, alpha testing, beta testing.
And lastly he asked me about the questions about my hobbies and time management and also
I am selected for this role and suggestions from my side are like for coding round you
must have intense practice from your side.
Practice on the platform, hacker rank, coach F and code forces and be confident while you
are answering the subject related questions like operating systems, computer networks
and DBMS.
They may grill you a lot but be confident.
Finally I could say that be cool and calm to give your best.
Thank you guys.