Welcome to my channel, I am Ben, the business analyst expert.
In today's video, we will be having an in-depth understanding of what Salesforce business
analysts do, their salary, and how you can make a career as a Salesforce business analyst.
But before getting more insight into the main context, don't forget to subscribe to my
channel and press the bell icon to get the latest update of our channel.
Business analysts help guide businesses in improving processes, products, services, and
software through data analysis.
These agile workers straddle the line between IT and the business to help bridge the gap
and improve efficiency.
So what a Salesforce business analyst do?
As a Salesforce business analyst, you will be part of a team responsible for delivering
enterprise cloud technology solutions to Fortune 500 companies and government agencies.
Our Salesforce business analysts wear many hats on their projects and are responsible
for everything from requirement gathering, Salesforce configuration, testing, training,
and post-deployment support.
As a Salesforce business analyst, you will work alongside solution architects and technical
architects to design, develop, and deploy large-scale enterprise solutions while learning
and growing your skill set.
Key roles and responsibilities of Salesforce business analysts.
Number one, work with clients and end users to gather, understand, and define business
requirements.
Number two, develop user stories and 2B process flows to support the design and development
of Salesforce solutions for our clients.
Number three, work collaboratively with team members to design a solution that will meet
a client's business requirements and fulfill user stories.
Number four, complete the configuration for user stories within Salesforce, app exchange
products or other cloud-based technologies.
Number five, collaborate with developers to test and verify that solutions will meet the
business requirements.
Number six, participate in key meetings with clients including requirement sessions, system
demos, user acceptance, testing, and end user training.
What are the skills and experience required to become a Salesforce business analyst?
Number one, must have a bachelor's degree completed.
Number two, hands-on experience configuring Salesforce for similar CRM product, including
workflows, validation rules, and security controls.
Number three, proven ability to leverage analytical and problem-solving skills in a fast-paced
environment.
Number four, detail-orientated individual with the ability to quickly ramp up on new
clients, their business needs, and technologies.
Number five, strong presentation, communication, written and verbal skills, and interpersonal
skills.
Number six, ability to juggle and prioritize multiple tasks within a collaborative team
environment.
Number seven, demonstrates flexibility and willingness to do what it takes to get the
job done.
Number eight, drive and desire to learn and grow both technical and functional skill sets.
Number nine, proficient in Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project, and Visio.
Number 10, experience using Salesforce for similar CRM products to develop client or
business solutions.
Now let's talk about the average salary of a Salesforce business analyst based on his
seniority level.
Number one, junior level.
At this level, you have one to two years of experience as a business analyst.
You're in a supporting role and executing tasks delegated by others.
You're not independent yet, but learning and growing.
The average base pay inclusive of bonuses and overtime is $102,457 yearly.
Number two, mid-level.
You've gained vast experience, acquired various certifications.
You're in charge of developing user stories and the expected flow process to support the
problem solving design and facilitate requirements gathering meetings and leading projects, ensuring
that the user requirements are captured and documented.
The average pay for this position is $117,992 yearly.
Number three, senior level.
You are already an expert as a business analyst using Salesforce and lead multifaceted projects
with integrations.
You are required to quickly comprehend the challenges of a client's business and be able
to identify the strengths and weaknesses of an organization and make recommendations on
areas to improve.
The average salary for a senior level is $130,005 yearly.
So if you're looking to become a Salesforce business analyst, click in the link in the
description below to sign up for the full Salesforce business analyst tutorial.
You will not only gain real life project experience, but you will get training and quizzes that
will help you prepare for your Salesforce admin certification.
And if you liked this video, give a thumbs up and show your support in the comments section
below.See you in the next video.
Until then, keep smiling.
Please subscribe to my channel if you have not done it yet, and don't forget to click
the notification button.
I hope you guys learned and enjoyed this video.
Thank you and have a great day.