Hi friends, welcome back to my channel again.
So in this video, we are going to review IBM company.
Let's jump into our video.
Friends, before we start this video, I want to tell you that in our previous video, we
have discussed about this job software developer intern, and we were able to find this job
in this website, which is Google360.com.
Just bookmark this website by clicking on the star here so that you can access this
website easily to apply for the job.
So in our previous video, we have discussed about this job and what would be the requirements
for this job.
And to know more, you can watch my previous video and how to apply this job.
I have shared everything.
And then we are going to review the company by just searching for IBM GlassBowl.
So when it comes to the review, this company has 4.1 rating, which is pretty good, I would
say.
So if a company is having more than 3.5 rating, that implies, you know, you can easily join
in the company.
Let's deep dive into the more reviews and overall culture and values 4.1 diversity and
inclusion 4.3, workload balance 4.1, senior management 3.6, compensation and benefits
3.5 and career opportunities 4.0.
So these are the reviews.
Basically senior management, compensation and benefits are less than 4.
So people who wants more salary or else more hikes or else if you need a good manager or
good support from the management team, I think probably this is not a good fit for you.
I mean, you can still join because all the people work in Amazon are not dissatisfied
or not good.
But you can also, you know, check that if any IBM employees watching this video, please
do let us know your reviews on senior management, part and compensation and benefits.
And then 84% of the employees are recommending their friends to join this company.
90% of this company has a positive business outlook and 71% positive business outlook
and 90% of the employees are approving the CEOs.
And let's talk about pros and cons working in the company.
And they provide a good working environment, flexible working hours, good shift time, good
work culture, opportunities to learn new skills, good flexibility in working hours.
So basically this would be like, you know, somewhat depends upon the team and project
that you're working.
Cons, no issue, only salary hike is not good, low salary for existing employees, less or
stagnant career growth, long hours depending on workloads, little less salary compared
to its revivals, but with a lot of freedom.
When you comment on the salary, I would say due to the hierarchy and the large employee
size.
So salary is always an issue and the promotions too.
And then let's talk about the most recent reviews.
So we'll get to know how exactly the company is working on.
So the company is very nice.
Someone is working for more than five years, good environment and supporting manager, not
much projects to work, great place to work, a company that cares about its employees from
people or workplace perspective, bureaucracy, lack of direction, cutthroat internal politics,
etc.
And lots of learning opportunities are there, cons, salaries and raise always is an issue.
Good place to work for anyone we put men on the moon, nothing at all overall great, Salesforce
developer in Bangalore, work life balance, salary is good, you get work from home option,
flexible with work timings, employee benefits, appraisals are less compared to other companies.
Arctek gives good work life balance, not a very good paymaster.
Product manager or scrum master, this is an amazing workplace, none to describe so far.
Support analysts work life balance to grow peer, proper corporate environment, management
is not very supportive of change.
These are the reviews friends, so most of the people are telling this company is good
to work and it's a good start to start your career here as a fresher.
But when it comes to the salary hike, this is not much recommended.
But learning opportunities, it gives you a good opportunity to raise and grow.
And then let's talk about the jobs.
If the company is too big, there would be hundreds of jobs in this company or thousands
of jobs in this company, like network support engineer, network engineer, operations analyst,
technical support professional, IT client service manager, PMO, telecom networking,
intern, we have discussed in our previous video, intern software engineer, data scientist,
tech support, lot of jobs are available friends.
So only what you need to do is I recommend you to search here in the website and you
can apply for the roles instead of applying directly from the classroom.
You can also do that, but it's up to you.
And then let's talk about salary part.
So when it comes to the salary, the salary is also pretty good, like affordable.
I mean good application developer 727,000 software engineer 8,000 associated system
engineer 4,400,000 plus you get 25,000 additional pay.
So this is for freshers.
I would say and 16,000,000 is for project manager 12,000,000 for consultant 11,000,000
78,000 for data scientist 19,000,000 10,000 for senior advisory consultant.
So these are the salaries most most submitted so far and the highest paid salaries are like
75,000,000 for director 1,22,000,000 for executive director 60,000,000 for associate director
for programming program director executive architect 56,000,000,000 42,000,000 for senior
solutions architect advisory research engineer 37,000,000 and 41,000,000 for research scientist.
The salary is also pretty good here in this company friends.
Let's talk about the interview part.
So when I clicked on the interview part, we will get to know the insights of how difficult
the interview is.
How can you get into the IBM and how would be the interview experience?
So coming to the difficulty, difficulty is 2.9, which is good.
I would say it is it is not really that difficult.
And when it comes to getting an interview, 45% people that are hiring for from applied
online 21% recruiters that impress freshers and 13% employee referral 9% recruiter recruitment
agency for in person for another three.
So basically, you know, the majority of the employees they're hiring from is applied
online campus recruitment and employee referral.
So basically, if you are going to apply from the website that I have showed in the my previous
video, so most probably you get 60% of the probability you they might give a call to
you if you have fulfilled the requirements.
And when it comes to the interview experience, 70% is positive, 12% is negative and 19% is
neutral.
So if you are going to give an interview in this company, you might get 70% positive
experience.
So it is very far better than another other companies friends.
Let's talk about you know, you can also explore more here so that you will get to know the
interview questions as well sometimes, not sometimes most of the times you can check
here you can explore more to get how how how can you get into an interview and how can
you what kind of questions can you expect.
So let's talk about the benefits part 3.4 is the overall rating for the benefits retire.
So it means just okay, okay in the business, you know, in the benefits aspect.
So let's talk about more here.
Vacation and pay time of best lot of flexibility to take leave con no living and cashment work
from reimbursement of internet bills very good flexible work schedule supporting manager.
So IBM has a great rewards philosophy as an employer was completely aware about pay
party the benefits were top notch with an extensive insurance package unlimited sick
leaves flexibility of work hours and the next benefits are great benefits in you are a long
term employee if you are a long term employee nicely managed by the company very good culture
unlimited sick leave IBM is providing many benefits to its employees low costs on contact
employee might support might suffer this and packages for employees in various areas.
That's it friends.
That's it for this video.
If you want to explore more, you can check these images or to get to know the culture
and how the company looks.
So my decision for this company if you want to join a static area, it's a good opportunity.
And if you want to do a long term, yes, it is and you will get a lot of flexibility to
work here.
But salary wise and appraisal wise it is not recommended company.
And then it's up to you friends if you want to join or not.
In my upcoming video, I would be sharing information related to the jobs or internships until then
keep watching my videos and subscribe to my channel for more future videos.
Thank you and have a great day.
Take care.
Bye bye.