Hey guys, welcome back to another video. I figured I'd take a break from vlogging today and instead
do a more chill video, talk to you guys about my experience so far working at Amazon. You guys seem
to like my Amazon video so I figured I'll film another one, tell you guys what I like about it,
what I don't like about it. If you're thinking about applying at Amazon and working there,
hopefully this video helps you out. So I made a pros and cons list on my phone about certain
topics that I like and don't like. So we're just going to go through it all, starting with the pros.
First thing that I have is that it's easy work. Currently I am a packer, super easy. Grab a cart,
scan it, scan the items, put it in a box, tells you exactly which box that you need, tells you
exactly what to scan, pack it and then put it into the conveyor belt. Very simple, does not require
any thinking at all. The second thing I have is the pay. I think it has decent pay, it's definitely
not the best and it's definitely not low. It's right the middle. I think right now they're starting
at $16 an hour but that also depends on your schedule. In my specific facility, overnight
people tend to get paid a little bit more than the people who work during the mornings so it really
depends on your facility. And just to clear this up, my pros and cons list is based on my facility.
It could be different for you, it could be better, it could be worse, you could have a stricter
building but some buildings don't really care as much. Number three, they have great benefits.
I don't specifically remember all of them but I know that you get eye care, medical, they also have
mental health lines, 401k. You can search all those up on the website which I'll link down in
description. Number four is having a good schedule. You work four days a week for 10 hours. I know for
some people that's really long but on the bright side, you're only working four days a week.
Obviously the schedules vary but from what I've heard, they have Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, which is what they call the donut shift. And then they also have
I think Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. There could be more but that's what I've heard so
far. Number four is the breaks. I like how I go in, work for three hours, take a 30-minute break for
lunch, come back, work for another three hours, take another 30-minute break, and then this one is
paid. Right now with COVID, I'm pretty sure all the facilities are doing it on a schedule. I heard
that before you get two 15-minute breaks that you could take whenever you want but right now they
are trying to limit the people in the cafeteria obviously and the break rooms so there aren't
too many people there at once. Another pro is if you shop on Amazon a lot, like me, you get a 10%
discount. I know it doesn't sound like a lot. We don't get Amazon Prime for free if you're wondering
but you know a dollar, two, three, maybe more depending on what you're buying. I feel like
it's a great difference. I could use that dollar for something else, you know? Another thing is
that we get paid weekly. We get paid on Fridays every single week. PTOs, this is paid time off.
You get time as you're working. I'm not completely sure how it works. Like I don't know how much time
you get for the amount of hours that you work but you can use this to maybe come into work an hour
later, leave work earlier, or maybe take a day off if you have enough for that. So far everyone that
I've met is really nice, very helpful, especially during my first and second week. They're just
showing me around on what to do, how to not overwork myself, and stuff like that. Another pro is that
there's basically no dress code. You could basically wear whatever you want. Obviously it has to be
appropriate. And the last thing on my list is something that they added recently, which is they
pay I think 95% of your tuition if you're working full-time at Amazon. Plus they will work around
your school schedule so they could give you a schedule to where you could go to school and also
work at Amazon. So I think that's a great benefit. Right now I am seasonal so I don't get any of those
benefits but when I do, if I do transfer to Blue Badge then that's definitely a good perk. Now
onto the cons. First things first is that you're on your feet constantly moving for 10 hours. The
work is very repetitive. You're doing the exact same thing that it could get boring sometimes.
 And in my facility we are not allowed to wear headphones so all you hear is the beeping sounds
of when you scan items. Another thing is that since it is a fast-paced environment, it gets
pretty hot. I don't know, I don't think they have AC. Pretty sure they just keep it room temperature
so when you're moving around a lot. Lifting heavy things, it gets really hot and that's another thing
by the way. You will be lifting a lot of heavy items like cat litter, dog food, pounds of paper.
You guys, I did not know cat litter and dog food could get that heavy but it does. It's definitely
something to consider especially if you're not used to it. If you're strong and you go to the
gym and you lift a lot then good for you but if you're skinny, don't have much muscles like me,
then you might want to consider it. Okay so along with it being fast-paced, you also have rates that
you need to hit. For my facility, singles is 60 items and I think multis like 120. But let me just say
not everyone hits it. Our average is like 50, maybe even 48, 45 sometimes. Another con is the
turnover rates are very high especially for younger people. I'm 21 and let me just tell you,
it's very rare for me to meet someone that are in the same age range as me. Most people are like
26 and over. There's a lot of people in their 40s, mid 40s. I think I've only really met one or two
people that are around my age. Another thing is that the job could get exhausting like I was
talking about earlier. It's fast-paced, you're always moving, you're always doing something
which sometimes could be a good thing for some people but 10 hours of doing that
could be a lot. We get into work at 7 30, leave at 6 p.m. We don't really have much time
after work to you know enjoy ourselves, have like a good work and life balance because I get home
exhausted, my feet hurt, very tired because I don't get enough sleep from the night before.
So I only really have from let's say seven o'clock to ten o'clock to do what I have to do which three
hours is really not a lot but that's all you really get if you still want to get a good amount
of sleep. Okay one last thing and this is the biggest thing I've noticed is that Amazon is the
most unorganized company I've ever worked for. I noticed this the first week that I started working,
it got worse as time went on. This is going to go in multiple topics but we're going to start off
with coming into work. Basically there's this board which tells you which station you're going
to be in for the day. Most of the time it's already done but you have the other employees that are not
on the board. They don't know when they're going to be overstaffed until we get there. They have
too many workers and not enough spots. During this time it's peak season coming up, they're
constantly hiring every single week which only puts out more people to overstaff. So when
overstaffing happens, usually they send out VTO which is voluntary time off. It's a choice,
you could take it or you could stand around and see what work they would offer you to do. What sucks
about it is me driving to work 35 minutes just to be sent home and drive that 35 minutes back
when they could have just sent out the VTO before we're there. You know? I don't know,
they probably have some reason for it but I just don't really understand why they do it that way.
And yes, I could just stay at work but here's the thing, I get stuck in the most ridiculous
and unnecessary work. There have been many times where I choose to stay because I need the money
and guess what they wanted me to do? If you guys watched my previous vlogs, I've already talked
about this but scraping tapes off the ground, which doesn't sound bad at all, but I had that
scraper one day, scraped it and it is hard to take off. It doesn't like smoothly glide off and you
can't take the tape and like you know peel it yourself either because people walk over it,
all those like trucks thing, drive over it and it like peels off if you get what I'm saying.
Imagine doing that for 10 hours? No thank you. What are some other things that they wanted me to
do? Washing harnesses, never done that but I was told that and I immediately went back and said
I'll just take the VTO and go home. I don't want to make it sound like I'm complaining but
realistically if I got the job as a packer, I should be packing. Not all these other
things that people don't want to do only because you overstaff the days but yeah I think that's
my biggest problem right now. Let's not forget on days where they're already overstaffed,
they would send out voluntary extra time and then have more people come and be overstaffed
just to send them home and it just doesn't make sense to me you know? But yeah that's really it,
that's all I have for my pros and cons. Hopefully this helped you guys out.
Peak season is coming up and I don't know how to feel about it. It's definitely gonna be rough.
If I were to be honest with you guys, I hated my first two weeks and you probably will too but
after the second week you kind of get the hang of it and it starts to not be as bad but overall I
don't know if I'm gonna be staying with Amazon. If I could get transferred to like a part-time
position I think that would be the best. If eventually, if I get transferred to a blue
badge then I could give them my school schedule and they could work around my schedule and stuff
like that. So we'll see what happens. But yeah I hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you did,
make sure to leave a like. If you guys have any questions about working at Amazon that maybe I
could help out with, make sure to leave a comment down below. Subscribe if you haven't already and
I will see you guys all in my next videos. Bye guys!