If you guys are tuning in for the first time, my name is Holly Lee.
=I am a career coach.
My passion is to help you very simple land a job with your company of choice.
But in this channel, we talk a lot about Amazon twice a week, every Tuesday, right
now, my free coaching and answering all of your interview questions, career questions.
Amazon, any employer, there's always a pro and there's always a con.
If you miss my why Amazon video, I was very clear in that video where I said it
was, it was a very good culture for me at the time.
I love what I did.
It was moving so fast.
It was very innovative mentally for me.
But at the end of the day, guys, if you want to work for Amazon and that is your
intent, because I guarantee you 99% of you guys in here are interested in Amazon.
You have to be able to think on your feet.
For example, leaving me comment that my live stream is too long, you know,
time to look for it, you're never going to get hired at Amazon.
What do you think Amazon is?
No one is going to give you a live stream to learn it.
You figure out yourself that's Amazon.
You figure out who the decision makers are.
You figure out where is the gap in business or project.
You figure out how are you supposed to execute.
When I say execute, I don't mean this.
I meant this.
How do you execute globally quickly to the point efficient by the way,
frugality is also in the picture.
Make the why Amazon video extreme transparent and listen to the
word coming out of my mouth.
I said the culture is fast.
It is in a speed of lightning.
It is a place where you can BS when you BS people will call out your BS.
They move so fast, not because they're rude is because they're always on a time crunch.
So that environment and that culture led to, it's not a good fit for just anybody.
Okay.
And if you're someone who require at least some directions or you are not
 willing to take risk, it's not Amazon and you will not do well in that
environment and that culture.
I encourage you guys to rewatch my why Amazon video, the odds are, if you're
already my pay YouTube community member, I can see a lot of you guys here with
the emoji, the each sleeps law emoji next to you.
That's how I know.
Rewatch it and you'll understand what I mean.
Amazon is great because the good thing is Amazon or any company has their own,
right?
I'm just focusing on Amazon right now, because that is a question.
It is phenomenal.
Amazon is the one company that I work for in my 21 years of career where I felt
proud, where I felt like I've learned something, not because my manager taught
me something I taught myself because that's Amazon, they are moving in that
speed where you're going to fall down a lot, hence the question, your weaknesses,
right?
Your failure, your disagree with your manager and your peer, all those
questions is true.
That's Amazon.
Okay.
I made so many mistakes at Amazon, but I've learned from all of it on my own.
That's why I appreciate a culture like that.
I get bored out of my insane mind.
If I work for a company that's perfect.
And there's a lot of perfect companies out there where, you know, you press a
button, you can find, let's just say candidate, for example, right?
In recruiting, I'm just giving you guys a pure example, because I know that
recruiter will be watching this live stream.
If I say, I want to look for front end engineer from Expedia or another online
retail or e-commerce for hotline, BIE even, right?
If I work for other, other player, I did mention perfect, perfect processes
and everything in place, right?
They would just, oh, Holly here, I made a list for you.
The list has like half a million to 1 million, um, BIE just in the Seattle area.
Here you go.
I'd be bored out of my mind.
And that's a fact.
Other company is so easy where they just give you leads and you just, I'll just
reach out to you because I already have your phone number and I also have your
email address.
I don't want that.
It's good for other folks, but for me, I have a builder mentality.
I've always liked to build from ground up.
That's Amazon.
Amazon is a giant father, mothership with a lot of babies, meaning
thousands of startups because a lab one 26, it was a startup.
It was a startup with just a couple of location in Silicon Valley.
And when I went to heartline, uh, seven years ago, when I relocated from
California to Seattle for, for the opportunity to lead heartline, there
were 14 small businesses.
Okay.
And I turned those 14 small businesses into B2B.
You see where I'm going?
Same thing with Alexa.
Alexa has been around for a long time, but no one know about the, the
speech and the skills and all of that stuff.
Right.
It was a startup that is now a giant.
I don't know if I'm a good fit for Amazon today because it's not like how it
used to be where I got my hands really dirty with a lot of small startup inside.
And I'm pretty sure Amazon still acquire a company every single week, but that's
why you hear a lot of negative review.
There's good and there's bad.
Okay.
I just told you about the good and here's the bad people.
The bad is now that I'm a single mom, right?
I have, I have a kid.
I completely forgot.
I have a child for a second.
You see where I'm going and I need to be at home at certain time.
I need to pick him up a certain time.
We just came back for vacation.
I can't even be on, on public transit without quarantine.
So when all of that happened and working for a company like Amazon, it's
not a good idea for me and I knew I wanted to be a mom and that's why I left.
The people who are reviewing, you have to really think what type of culture
that fits them and what is their value.
Now I did not say that I love all of my managers or love managers at Amazon.
I'm not the same thing as other employer.
Okay.
So please don't take this as, you know, Amazon is not a good place just for mom,
but look at other employer as well.
I know for a fact that I'm not going to get that from any other employer.
I've actually tried going to other fan companies.
That's why I am an entrepreneurial with my own business right now in my own
clock, my own time in coaching you, pumping content and that's it.
That's all I want to do.
I want to eat, sleep, coach, eat, sleep, starve.
It's a very sensitive topic.
When I left Amazon and joined another company, even within the first 30 days,
I have my regret.
Actually, I regretted it almost entire year.
Oh, why the hell did I left Amazon?
Because the work that I've done has so much value of and believe in who I was.
And I was so proud of my work there because at Amazon, when you built
something, you do something, it literally does go live very fast.
And for me, I like the hunt.
What do you think career coaching is?
Why, why do you think I'm streaming for you guys?
Twice a week, because when I stream, I hear results and I'm driven with
results, highly, highly ambitious.
And if you are those folks, then yes, Amazon will be a great place for you,
but understand it's not perfect.
There's no such thing as a perfect company, which is why I'm helping you to
have clarity in what on earth you want.
I created six different programs and products to help you get there as well.
Because I've been there and I wish that I had someone like me to help me during
that time, but I didn't, I just had to figure it out on my own place where
you're frantic and I don't have my story.
I don't know if it's relevant.
Cancel that interview.
There'll be plenty of opportunities for you to don't waste your time.
Do not waste your time.
Don't keep on bombing your interviewed.
By the way, I mentioned bombing your interview because literally 95% of every
single one of my clients have fell their Amazon interview.
That's a fact.
What is your name?
No, what's your name?
My name is Parker.
Bye.