Hi guys, it's Chi here. So I'm on Google Seattle campus today, and I'm going to ask people questions like
What do they do at Google and how much they make and how do they get into Google? Let's find out
Our first question here is gonna be what's your job title at Google and what product do you work on currently?
Right, I am a software engineer here. So that's my title. I work on infrastructure side of things
So mostly on cloud computing
I guess in general terms and how many years of experience do you have at Google in tech in general too?
Yeah at Google I've been here for like a couple of years now before that I worked at Microsoft
so like totally I've been there for like seven years so for like two years and
Engineer at Google like what can people expect? What's the range?
Depends upon the level that you have been hired at so like a for L5
So and also the area in which you're hired at so I think levels start if I will give you the exact numbers
Based on area and the level so what do you say like around 200 K like 250 for
Yeah, cool, and that is TC's right total compensation
And then what's your what would be your advice for people who want to make it to Google?
Yeah for software engineers in general. I think the interview process is pretty straightforward
It's mostly just general software engineering skills like fundamentals data sectors algorithms and like system design interviews based upon the level that you interview in
So nothing specific to Google per se like the usual industry standards is all I would recommend
What do you do at Google and what kind of product you're working on? Okay. Yeah, I'm a I'm a front-end engineer
I'm working on web contacts, which is
Part of core is like contacts.google.com and what kind of advice do you have for people who?
Want to make it to Google? I guess I can only really talk about my own experience
but I would say like for me I did do I did do a lot of coding questions and then like
Part of part of it as well was just sort of doing like my personal projects
Like and just kind of getting that experience as well. I think helped a lot first personal project
I recommend would be like building a personal website
that's just like a simple project, but is
kind of
You're gonna have to learn to like build it
Yeah
one other one other thought is like doing coding questions like on the code like by yourself
It's just sitting down is very different from like interviewing in person
You're probably gonna want to have that in like, you know real settings or practices
Very last one and of course, like you don't have to answer if you don't want so what is your total com for this position?
Right now it's around 150. It includes like the base and the bonus as well. Yeah, that's right. Yeah
Yeah, I also just joined I I'm a little over a year in. Hi
So if you could introduce yourself, like what do you do at Google and what products you working on as well?
So, my name is Christy. I work at Google in Seattle, and I'm a software engineer here working on the cloud
Department what kind of career advice do you have for people who?
Aspire to work here. So career advice for people aspiring to come work at Google. I think
It's most interesting if you have some project or something you're really passionate about
It's not just about getting into a fang or manga company
it's more about what you want to do to help make this world better and
Be in a place where you're working with the top tier intelligent people like every day
I think like wow everyone here is so smart
And if you have something you want to do that will better this world
Then Google is a great place to do it because you have incredibly smart people a lot of resources
You can actually get a lot of amazing things done
Yeah, so like in terms of the interview, how do you prepare for the interview to Google because I heard is really difficult
So the interview process quite standard across fang companies you have to do something called leak coding
It's where you do kind of these problem solve logic puzzles in code
So it's called data structures and algorithms. You just have to crunch through it
It's very much like studying for the SAT you do it you learn it you get better
Yeah, I said these are hard
Interviews are hard. I'll get a good friend to do them together
It's really more fun that way and do mock interviews because it's one thing to be good at solving the logic problem
But the more important thing that you do at the interview is discuss with people
Yeah on how to solve an ambiguous question
They want to know how you think in a situation where you don't know all the
variables and
How you solve things with different input from other people because that's ultimately what you're doing in the workplace
So the first question is what do you do at Google? What's your job title and what product you work on?
I'm a software engineer in the cloud and then what advice you have for people who wanted to work at Google
dive deep
Be curious about technology and always learning
I think those will be the good qualities in order to like prepare for the interview itself, right?
Like how do you actually prepare for the interview?
I think you know go back to the college
Algorithm course will be very helpful and you know
I'm pretty sure they're like online teachers about the rare and photo interview and go through those will be also helpful
And I think we also have like mock interview
Services provided by the recruiter and take adventures those will be very helpful as well
Gotcha and how many years of experience do you have at Google or in tech in general?
Ten years and
Do you have any like crazy story about like when you or someone you know?
Broke something. Oh
Yeah from my previous employer. Yes
I was in Amazon before and then you know
Someone from the team actually then accidentally made a change and then that broke popular internet back in 2016
I think holy moly if you could quickly introduce what do you do at Google and what product you working on?
I'm Jim Fay. I
joined Google five years ago. I used to
Work in Microsoft and then yeah
And then jump to Google
I
Were in the same team we're working in cloud platform. Yeah, this is Ryan. I joined Google a year and a half ago. I
Joined also jump from Microsoft actually
Yeah
Yeah from Microsoft. Yeah, I
Right now is work in the same team with stream fade in
GCP cloud platform service infrastructure
Yeah, it's quite fun working at Google I would say like how I got into tech I was majoring in computer science and
I sort of into computer stuff and I actually work at some other company like small company before
Microsoft and Google and then I
sort of want to see what the big company how the big company operates and
how they work and come up with like
products so I interviewed a couple of times with
Microsoft Amazon Facebook Google actually interview twice together and up getting this job. So
With Google. Yeah, what is your total compensation for this position?
Not not quite sure but it's higher than Microsoft. I'm not like a senior engineer
but right now like I say Google pays quite good for
Like engineers at this level. Yeah, and any like career advice you have for people who?
Aspire to make it to Google. I mean it depends on which level you are applying for
So see if you are applying for junior
software
software engineer positions
You need to prepare for like you say coding questions, but I think for higher level they
that the coding things is
Less and you don't have to be a computer science background, but most of them
Engineers, I think computer background. Yeah, but I know I do know some of them didn't
Thank you so much for the advice.